=== Leave and Time Off ===

Sick leave
We offer [one week] of [paid] sick leave. In states or countries where employees are
entitled to a greater number of sick leave days by law, we will follow that law. You can
take sick leave to recover from short-term illness, injuries, mental issues and other
indisposition. If you have the flu or other contagious disease, please use your sick days.
If you become sick, inform your manager and send a sick leave request [through our
HRIS.] You may take a partial day off or work from home, but we advise you to rest and
recuperate for a day before returning to work.
Use your PTO or arrange for a flexible work schedule if you want to attend routine
health care (e.g. doctor’s/dentist’s appointments.)
Occasionally, we may ask you to submit a physician’s note or other medical certification
and/or complete a sick leave form. We will do this for insurance purposes if you are
absent for more than [three days] of sick leave.Long-term illness
[Insert this section in your handbook if you employ 50 or more employees in the U.S.:
The U.S. Family and Medical Leave Act provides employees 12 weeks of unpaid, jobprotected leave in a 12-month period with the same group health benefits for medical
and family reasons. One of those reasons is to recover from a serious health condition
or to care for an immediate family member with a serious health condition.
You are eligible for this type of leave if you have worked for us for more than 12 months
and you have worked at least 1,250 hours within 12 months before your leave begins.
Contact HR for more information when needed.]
Bereavement leave
Losing a loved one is traumatizing. If this happens to you while you work with us, we
want to support you and give you time to cope and mourn.
For this reason, we offer [three days] of paid bereavement leave. You may take your
bereavement leave on [consecutive/non-consecutive] days to:
■ Arrange a funeral or memorial service.
■ Attend a funeral or memorial service.
■ Resolve matters of inheritance.
■ Fulfill other family obligations.
■ Mourn.
If you have to travel long-distance for a funeral or service, you can take [two] additional
unpaid days off. If you require more time, please use your PTO.
Jury duty and voting
If you are called for jury duty and you are an exempt employee, you can take [one day]
off without deduction from your salary. If local or national law stipulates more days of
paid jury duty leave, we will follow the law. On election day, you can take [two hours] off
to vote. You can take [a paid half-day off] if you need to travel a short distance to vote. If
your trip lasts more days, please use your PTO.
Hourly employees may take [one unpaid day] off for jury duty and voting. If local or
national law obliges us to provide hourly employees with paid jury duty leave, we will
follow the law.To keep good records, we ask you to bring us [a copy of your summons for jury duty
and a document that proves you served.]
Parental leave
Caring for a newborn is an exciting time for parents. We want to support new mothers
and fathers in their first months of parenthood with paternity and maternity leave.
Afterwards, we will continue to support parents with [flexible work options and child
care.]
Paternity and maternity leave
[Insert this if you’re covered by the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA): The FMLA
provides eligible employees with 12-weeks of unpaid, job-protected leave for the birth or
adoption of a child.You are eligible for this type of leave if you have worked for us for
more than 12 months and you have worked at least 1,250 hours within 12 months
before your leave begins. Contact HR for more information when needed.]
Our company offers [three months] of paid maternity and paternity leave. If local or
national law stipulates longer leave, we will follow the law.
If you are about to be a new mother or father (either through childbirth or adoption), talk
to HR to arrange your leave. Please give us at least [three months] notice before your
leave begins.
Depending on local or national law, pregnant women can take part of their leave before
labor. If you suffer complications during childbirth or have other issues, you can ask for
an unpaid leave extension of up to [two months.] Contact HR as soon as possible to
arrange this.
Returning to work after parental leave
We are committed to helping new parents transition back to work after their leave ends.
We offer:
■ [Remote working/ Flexible hours.]
■ [Onsite/ External paid day care.]
■ [Lactation rooms.]Leaving our company
In this section, we describe our procedures regarding resignation and termination of our
employees. We also refer to our progressive discipline process that may sometimes
result in termination.
[Insert this if employees are in the U.S: We remind you that in the U.S. employment is
“at-will.” This means that you or our company may terminate our employment
relationship at any time and for any non-discriminatory reason.]
Progressive discipline
Here we outline steps we will take to address employee misconduct. We want to give
employees a chance to correct their behavior when possible and assist them in doing
so. We also want to ensure that we thoroughly investigate and handle serious offenses.
Our progressive discipline process has six steps of increasing severity. These steps
are:
i. Verbal warning
ii. Informal meeting with supervisor
iii. Formal reprimand
iv. Formal disciplinary meeting
v. Penalties
vi. Termination
Different offenses correspond to different steps in our disciplinary process. For example,
minor, one-time offenses (e.g. breach of our dress code policy) will trigger Step 1. More
severe violations (e.g. sexual harassment) will trigger step 5.
If you manage employees, inform them when you launch a progressive discipline
process. Pointing out a performance issue is not necessarily a verbal warning and may
be part of your regular feedback. If you judge that progressive discipline is appropriate,
let your team member know and ask HR to help you explain our full procedure.
Managers may skip or repeat steps at their discretion. Our company may treat
circumstances differently from that described in this policy. But, we are always obliged
to act fairly and lawfully and document every stage of our progressive discipline
process.
Keep in mind that our company isn’t obliged to follow the steps of our progressive
discipline process. As you are employed “at-will” in the U.S, we may terminate youdirectly without launching a progressive discipline process. For serious offens

=== Benefits Overview ===

Benefits and perks
In this section, we describe what we offer to our employees. We provide information on
our health insurance plans and benefits like work from home options and companyissued equipment.
Employee health
Employee health is important to us. We don’t discriminate against people with
disabilities or health conditions, but we want to do everything possible to help
employees stay healthy. At a minimum, we provide [group health insurance] to all
eligible employees. For more information about our insurance package, contact HR.
[Insert this if you have more than 20 employees in the U.S: According to the
Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA), you may choose to
continue your group health benefits for a limited period after leaving our company. This
can happen after you experience a qualifying event, i.e. termination for reasons other
than gross misconduct and reduction in your hours of employment. Covered spouses
and children may also be able to extend their health coverage after certain qualifying
events. Please ask HR for guidance.]
We have also established non-smoking and substance abuse policies to protect
employee health. We will create a workplace with minimal noise and good lighting and
offer [free healthy snacks, wellness programs.]
Workers’ compensation
We strive to keep our workplace safe, but accidents may happen occasionally.
Employees who are injured at work (by accident or disease) can receive wage
replacement, medical care and rehabilitation benefits according to workers’
compensation laws, when appropriate. Please inform us of your injury as soon as
possible. Ask HR for forms that you need to file a claim or contact your state agency for
workers’ compensation.
Our company has a workers’ compensation policy according to guidelines of the states
(or countries) we operate in. [Insert summary of your workers compensation insurancepackages and details on who will handle workers’ compensation when employees are
injured. If you operate in multiple states or countries, mention any specific guidelines
and, if possible, provide employees with contact details of workers compensation
boards for the states or countries you operate in.
Work from home
If your job doesn’t require you to be present at our premises, you can occasionally work
from home (WFH). We normally allow [one day per week.] If you need to telecommute
for more days per week, talk to your manager.
Please inform your manager that you want to work from home [using our HRIS] at least
[two days] in advance. [You can also set a recurring WFH day per week.] If there’s a
rare emergency, you may work from home without having received prior approval, but
call or email your manager as soon as possible. If they are in a different time-zone,
contact HR instead.
When you are working from home, please use an internet connection and devices that
are fast and secure. Choose a place without loud noises or distractions. And, check in
with your team frequently to make collaboration easier.
If there is inclement weather (e.g. a blizzard) please check your [email] to see if the
office is officially closed. If you judge that your commute during inclement weather is
dangerous, let us know. We will not force you to come to work if your safety is at stake
or if there is an official travel warning.
=== Remote Work Policy ===

Remote working refers to working from a non-office location on a temporary or
permanent basis.
If you’re an office-based employee, you may work remotely for a maximum of [two
consecutive weeks] per year. You may arrange this if you [are a new parent or suffer
from a short-term disability.] If you have another reason, talk to your manager. Submit
your remote working requests [through our HRIS] at least [one week] in advance.
If you work remotely permanently, we ask that you adhere to our security, confidentiality
and equal opportunity policies just like your office-based colleagues.Employee expens