Remote Work Policy Template
Recent events surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic have led many employers to shutter offices
and disperse their workforce to shelter at home. Some businesses were more prepared than
others for this sudden shift.
A Remote Work Policy, sometimes called a Work From Home Policy or a Telecommuting Policy
is an agreement between an employer and its employees that is designed to define the
expectations and responsibilities for employees who are working while away from the office. It
should also define who is eligible to for remote work, how to request remote work privileges,
and the approval process for remote work.
If your organization doesn’t currently have a remote work policy or your policy could stand a
refresh, this template will help you craft a policy that covers all the bases and help you ensure
that employees are set up for success.
How to Use This Template
To draft your company’s policy, review the text in gray then remove it in your final draft. We’ve
provided examples for each section. You can fill in your information or replace these examples
with your own verbiage.
If you are revising an existing policy, you can use this template to double check that your policy
is as complete as possible.
Disclaimer: This template provides general guidelines and is meant only to be used as a
reference. Please ensure that your policy is vetted by your legal and human resources
personnel. Neither the author nor Intrust IT will assume any legal liability that could arise from
the use of this policy.COMPANY HEADER / LOGO
Remote Work Policy Brief and Purpose
[In this section, explain why your company is creating this policy. The main benefit of a policy is
that it ensures that both employees and employer are on the same page and can manage
expectations for remote work. State your goals and expectations at the outset.]
Example: [Company Name] considers remote work to be appropriate for some employees and
some roles, but not necessarily for all employees and all roles. Remote work allows employees to
work at home, on the road or in at an offsite location. Remote work does not change any terms
and conditions of employment with [Company Name]. Remote work is a privilege and can be
revoked if the employer or employee needs are not being met.
Remote Work Agreement
[In this section, explain who the policy is intended for. Is everyone in your organization eligible
for remote work? What are the conditions for eligibility? Spell the conditions out to provide
transparency for your entire staff.]
Example: [Company Name] employees are permitted to work remotely only if their job duties
permit it. Individuals who are required to have direct physical contact with customers are not
eligible for remote work under this policy. Employees who have been with the company more
than [n] months, have had a no disciplinary actions, and perform most of their duties in a way
that can be performed successfully from a remote location may be eligible for remote work.
[In this section, explain the limitations of the remote work policy. Can an employee work
remotely every day or just a certain number of days per week? Is the employee required to
designate certain days of the week for remote work? Is there a maximum number of days per
year that can be worked remotely? Can remote work time be used for maternity, paternity or
other types of leave? Is there a provision for employees who work on site to shift to remote
work? Who decides if that transition can be made? When are remote workers required to be onsite (for all-staff meetings, for instance, or mandatory in-person training)?]
Example: [Company Name] employees may be permitted to work remotely full-time, on certain
days or by dividing their schedule between the office and a remote location. Reasons that could
prompt a remote work arrangement include but are not limited to:
• Inclement weather
• Natural disasters
• Declared emergencies
• Childcare issues
• Medical conditions
• Lengthy commutesCOMPANY HEADER / LOGO
Remote work arrangements may be ad-hoc, occasional, temporary or permanent depending on
the needs of [Company Name] and must be approved by the employee’s manager.
To request permission to work remotely, employees must submit a request at least one day in
advance. Exceptions may be granted on a case by cases basis at the discretion of the manager
and focusing first on the business needs of the organization.
If the remote work request is for more than one week, the employee and manager must meet to
agree upon specific goals, schedules and deadlines.
If the employee and manager agree, a remote work agreement will be prepared and signed by all
parties.
Remote Work Conditions
[In this section, spell out any recommended or mandatory requirements for remote work, such as
reliable internet connection, a company-issued cell phone, video-conferencing equipment, a
quiet place to work, designated work hours or adherence to regularly scheduled breaks. Detail
anything your company might supply to remote workers.]
Example: An employee must remain productive, connected and secure. The employee must
establish an appropriate work environment. [Company Name] is not responsible for costs
associated with the setup of the employee’s home office, such as remodeling. All employees
working remotely must have a high-speed Internet connection, reliable phone connection and
must be available during their regular working hours.
Compliance with Policies
[In this section, detail policies remote workers must follow. Should the employee follow all
pertinent policies stated in your employee handbook while working remotely? Policies could
include attendance, dress code for external meetings, confidentiality and social media. You can
make a blanket statement here covering all policies or select those policies that pertain to
remote work. Will these policies be enforced? How? Are there written consequences for not
following policies? How do remote workers track and submit time sheets? Are remote workers
expected to use project management software to collaborate with other employees?]
Example: An employee must follow all [Company Name] policies defined in the Employee
Handbook and must report their time each day. Non-compliance with policies may lead to
revocation of remote work privileges and/or disciplinary action up to and including termination.
Remote Work Security ComplianceCOMPANY HEADER / LOGO
[In this section, explain data protection and security measures remote workers must follow. The
plan may contain restrictions around how data can be collected, shared or stored. How can the
remote worker access files or data stored on premises at the office or in the cloud? Are remote
workers required to use a company-issued computer for all remote work? What are policies
surrounding password security or log-ins? How will remote work be backed up? What should
remote workers do in case of a breach or suspected security incident?]
Example: All employees who do not have a company-supplied computer must have a computer
running pre-approved VPN software and anti-malware software. The employee must install
software updates when available, must use full-disk encryption, must use a strong, unique
password for each account, must not allow nonemployees to access [Company Name] data, and
must have a pre-approved data backup plan. Employees are expected to ensure the protection of
proprietary company and customer information accessible from their home office. For more
information, the employee should review all policies with [Company Name] IT and security
personnel to ensure they are in compliance with all applicable company policies.
Evaluation of Remote Work
[In this section, address performance reviews for remote workers. What tools will be used to
measure completion of goals or fulfilling job requirements?]
Example: Employees will be evaluated according to [Company Name] evaluation policies and
substandard performance may lead to the revocation of remote work privileges and/or
disciplinary action up to and including termination.
Legal and Tax Considerations
[In this section, include pertinent advisory information from your company attorney, tax
preparer, human resources personnel or insurer.]
Example: The employee must determine any tax or legal implications under IRS, state and local
government laws, and/or restrictions of working out of a home-based office. Responsibility for
fulfilling these obligations rests solely with the employee.